* **First**, recently you have asked how the very first equation from the project description appeared. Please familiarize yourself with references [3,4,5], especially the ref. 5. If you would like to obtain detailed line-by-line derivation of every statement, equation, and result, you are welcome. We can discuss it in private. I believe that a very brief description of key points and references for original papers are enough for a majority of the audience.

* **Second**, I would disagree with your proposition “… train some complex dynamical model!”, because it does not reflect reality. There are no statements about training something (I imply "train" in a sense to train any deep/machine learning model). We speak about mathematical methods that are common in theory of complex networks. Most of these methods are not black boxes. They are based on theorem-like statements and do deal nothing with training in the mentioned sense. 
* **Third**, I would like to describe the theoretical part of our project. Let me assume that you have believed that there is a critical behavior in GRN [1R]. Next, let me put my faith that our biological part of the team will succeed in data mining clearing. Therefore, in an ideal world I deal with well-prepared data that represents GRN dynamics and structure. I can analyze it from a mathematical point of view in many ways: 1) investigate clustering and clustering dynamics (if exist), 2) analyze level spacing distribution and its dynamics (if exist), 3) try to find any structure related patterns and its evolution (i.e. conservation laws). I can go on and on, the limit is only my mathematical background and computation facility. Having obtained all the possible insights, I would like to discuss its relevance and interpretation from our biological team. If you have seen, this approach was quite successful in [11].
* **Finally**, you are interested in the concrete plan. From my point of view, a concrete plan is impossible for any research project. You asked us to provide analysis steps. In my humble opinion, I have outlined them above.

[1R] Krotov, Dmitry, et al. "Morphogenesis at criticality." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 111.10 (2014): 3683-3688, [10.1073/pnas.1324186111](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1324186111)
